-- Science Club Proposal --

Attached are documents that specifically spell out the outlined information below.

Club Schedule:

Mathletes begin training during the winter sports cycle.

Beginning the week of October 14, 2018 on Thursday, October 18th.

2018-10-18
2018-11-01
2018-11-15
2018-11-29
2018-12-13
OFF
2019-01-10
2019-01-24
2019-01-31

Ending last week of January on January 31st.

The series is a total of 8 sessions.

Not quite like Y Care, but starting at about the same time after the normal school day.


Seats Available:

30 students from the 2nd & 3rd grade from October 2018 - January 2024

30 students from the 4th & 5th grade from October 2020 - January 2026

The following weeding of abundant applications will be handled as such:

    Preference will be given to children without the option to attend SOI.
    The remaining seats will be decided by anonymized essay.


Meetings Agenda:

I will order cheese pizzas as an after school snack (and my dinner...). Hopefully, no one is allergic and it will help people not be distracted by any kind of hunger. While I go over the plan and/or instruction for the afternoon activity.

From there we will collect our gear and supplies to work on the project.

Time for science!

Balance of time waiting for parental retrieval spent playing pickup games of chess?

(Question: what happens if a parent/guardian/other does not arrive for kiddo pickup?)

The first meeting:
    Will be primarily about behavior & safety with the parents, distributing equipment, & talking about the scientific method with a super contrived example we will walk through.
    Also and most importantly, pick (by voting for) activities from the subset of approved activities from the submitted list.
    
The last meeting:
    Some science experiments, party, chess tournament, & a real life retrospective.


Gear provided by the school:

Room
Water faucet
Sink
Occasional Display Case space (optional)

If you have these to use and I could borrow them-- that would be great.
I will take responsibility and replace anything that breaks.


Gear I will provide:

Gloves for small hands
Goggles for small faces
Any necessary equipment that is not there for borrowing


Supplies:

Procured and provided by me in accordance with the needs of the activity.


Location:

Thomas Jefferson Elementary
Room - ???


Rules for Kids:

Wear the goggles if it is a goggles requiring activity
Inside voices
Hands to ourselves, no science we will be executing requires any pushing or other flavor of "fightin'"
Ask questions, about anything, all the time


Rules for Grownups:

Two parent volunteers per session. Repeats allowed in case of shortage of volunteers.

The club is essentially free to join and participate in. Unless I buy supplies and no child is there to use them. In which case the parent has just purchased the unused supplies. It is the parent's responsibility to let me know when the child will not be there and we can avoid any unpleasant conversations about the parent's new unassembled 5V solar panel...


Registration:

I want a list of allergies

I want a list of people authorized to pick up the child

I will need the name of the parents/guardians and a phone number to reach them at

I will also need a backup emergency contact

I want the registration form to specify that an agreement on behaving safely is in place and that if the child is acting in an unsafe manner that endangers themselves or other students that they will lose the privilege of belonging to the science club. Science can be dangerous-- but it does not have to be.
